Episode 27, Elizabeth.
In the car on the way back to the capital, we drove in silence.
Haydiniv looked smug.
He had made his point.
George simply frowned and stared out the window.
I could see that he was lost as to what to do next.
And me?
I was desperately hoping to think of a way to turn the situation around.
Miki had sold me a dream and I wasn’t willing yet to let go of it.
What would we say when we saw Miki again?
As it turned out, we had even bigger problems.
As we got nearer the capital, Ankhaz, Haydiniv swore and slammed on the brakes.
“What’s wrong?” I asked.
“Roadblock!
But… why here?” he exclaimed.
Sure enough, there was a roadblock manned by soldiers about 200 metres ahead.
Haydiniv turned the car around to drive back the other way, but the soldiers saw
him doing this and two of them immediately jumped into a jeep and gave chase.
I looked at the dashboard and I realised that we were going to run out of petrol very soon.
“Haydiniv, we don’t have enough petrol,” I pointed out.
“There’s no point trying to…”
Haydiniv slammed on the brakes again, causing me to hit my head on the headrest.
Then, he jumped out of the car and ran into the nearest field.
He was heading towards the trees, but he was old and slow, and the treeline was too far.
The jeep pulled up next to us, and the soldiers got out.
One of them had a sighted rifle and he took aim at the fleeing Haydiniv… and pulled the trigger.
I turned away, but I knew what had happened… they didn’t bother taking a second shot.
As the soldiers approached us, George and I pulled out our passports
and the letters we had from Miki guaranteeing our protection.
But the soldiers grabbed our documents and threw them to the ground.
One of them produced a pistol and motioned with it for us to get into the jeep.
How could they ignore our letters from Miki?
What was going on?
What was going to happen to us?